Let's talk about arguments.
So we're gonna go back
into our gen_files again.
Let's say we wanna put the destination
to be something that the user can
input, right?
Cuz right now it's just always
generating this temp file for us.
And it'd be better if the user could tell,
I want those temporary
files to go to this place.
So the way that we do that instead of
making destination equal to temp like
this, what I'm gonna do here is
I'm gonna make this equal to $1.
And that's going to be the first
argument provided to it, right?
Now keep in mind there actually is
a $0 but the $0 will be gen_files.
It's gonna be the command that was run.
So if you wanna figure out how did
the user invoke this, which in our case,
it would be obvious it would be gen files,
but
you could do that with
$0 to figure that out.
So $1 will be technically
the second thing, but
it's the first argument being provided.
As you might imagine, $2 would be
the next one, $3, $4, and so on and so
forth, right?
So $1 is gonna be equal to that.
And now anywhere that we
refer to destination,
cuz we've basically renamed
$1 to be named destination.
I totally could have renamed this
to be just $!, and $1 here, but
I like giving names to my arguments so
I can figure out what that actually is.
It makes my bash script
a little bit more readable.
So I tend to do that, but
no reason you have to.
So now I can do gen_files, and
I can give it a yet-different-folder.
And now let's see where am I?
I'm in primary right, so
if I look in here there's a new folder
called yet-different-folder, and
if I go into yet-different-folder, you can
see I got all my temporary files, right?
So that's how you give
arguments to your bash script.
And now what I wanna do is I wanna go
back one, and I want to vi this again.
Let's talk about how to receive
user input interactively.
So the next thing I wanna do is
I'm going to delete this line here
called file prefix.
And we're gonna use a command called read.
So I'm gonna say read -p,
-p as being the prompt that was like
what are you asking the user for?
I'm gonna say enter a file prefix.
So we can ask these are the question
please enter something, and
we're gonna store in
a variable called file prefix.
Okay, so if I right and quit that,
this is the line that we added here.
Everything else will still
work the way we anticipated,
cuz we call it file prefix and
we're referring to file prefix down there.
So now I'm gonna say right quit,
and I'm gonna run gen_files, and
I'm gonna put that in
a still-different-folder.
So a new folder called still-different,
and
it's gonna ask you please
enter a file prefix.
I'm going to call this frontendmasters.
Okay, and if I hit Enter, it'll say done.
And if I go into still-different-folder,
and we look all the files are called
frontendmasters1, frontendmasters2,
frontendmasters3.
So that's how you grab user input
is using that read Command.
So basically you're saying like,
wait for the user to enter something.
As soon as they hit Enter, then continue,
and this will be whatever the user gave.